# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project

### Purpose
Louise, a promising playwright, wants to start a crowfunding campaign to fund her play named Fever. She is budgeting her play at over ten thousand dollars and is distressed with the budget amount and where to start. The Purpose of this analysis was to provide valuable insights to Louise whether theater, specifically - theater plays, is a successful venture and consult her based on the findings. 

## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
I began the analysis by pivoting the kickstarter campaign outcomes, the dates they were created, the years in which these campaigns were created, and the parent category. The reason why we are pivoting to these specific data attributes is because we want to see if there are any trends to the outcomes based on the month or year they were created. The outcomes, which are: successful, failed, canceled, and live, were placed in the columns field. I filtered the outcomes to only successful, failed, and canceled. I want to see the count of those outcomes, therefore, I also put outcomes in the value field, which defaults to count. I place the date created in the rows field which provides me with the timeframe we need for the analysis. I filtered the data to display only theater, which is the parent category of plays, and sorted the data from largest to smallest, which is more appealing to the eye. I clicked the pivot table, selected the Insert tab, and selected a line chart. Line charts are best for time series, or trend analysis, because the peaks and valleys, if any, highlights the most important information about the data. I named the line graph Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date.

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
To help Louise confirm whether her budget is attainable and the rate of projects successful in this range, I created a new sheet by selecting the plus side next to the slide bar and named the sheet Outcomes Based on Goals. In the sheet, I labeled eight columns: Goals, Number successful, Number failed, Number canceled, Total projects, Percentage successful, Percentage failed, and Percentage canceled. Under the Goal column, I entered value ranges, starting with goals less than one thousand and ending with goals greater than or equal to fifty thousand. I used the COUNTIFS function under the Number successful, Number failed, and Number canceled colums and ensured that the argument was adjusted to each variable. For example, in cell B2 I entered =COUNTIFS('Kickstarter (2)'!$F:$F,"successful",'Kickstarter (2)'!$D:$D,"<1000",'Kickstarter (2)'!$O:$O,"plays"). This will instruct Excel count the campaigns that meet these conditions, which are: all rows where the outcome was successful, the goals was less than or equal to one thousand, and the subcategory is play. After counting all the successful, failed, and canceled campaigns within the specified goal ranges, I added the total amount of projects per range to fill in the Total projects column using the SUM function. Later, to obtain the percentages of campaigns that were successful, failed, and canceled within each goal range, I divided each of the Number successful, Number failed, Number canceled values by its Total project value. The results were in decimals, so in order to see it in percentages, I highlighted all the cells under the percentage columns and selected the percentage side in Numbers under the Home tab. To visualize the data, I pressed down on Ctrl and selected the Goals column and the Percentage columns and selected the line graph in the Insert tab. I named the line graph Outcomes Based on Goal. 

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
One of my first challenges was that the Date Created conversion values had minutes or seconds, not exactly sure which one, after the short date. I noticed that when I did the conversion in the Kickstarter sheet, the dates populated in decimals. Rather than removing the decimals first, and then coverting the values to short date, I only completed the latter step. This is troubling when attempting to do pivot tables because each value is unique and will not group. I returned to my kickstarter data and converted my Date Created conversion data back to numbers, used the decrease decimal in Numbers in the Home tab to get a whole number, and then I formated the number to a short date. This helped me group data much better in pivot tables without having to select the group function in the Data tab, as well as visualizes cleaner on charts. Another challenge was that our instructions called for two sheets to be named the same and Excel does not allow that. I named one of the sheets with a two after it to signify me that it is the second task within the assignment.

## Results
- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
One conclusion we can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date is that most successful theater campaigns were launched between May and June. Second, successful and failed theater campaigns were nearly the same in December. We can consult Loiuse to launch her play between May and June and avoid launching in December. 

- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
I can conclude that the most successful plays were those that had goals less than one thousand, a whopping seventy-six percent. As the goal increased, the percentage of successful plays decreased, until the twenty-five thousand to twenty-nine ninety-nine thousand, after this range, the percentage of successful plays increased till it drops off at the forty-five thousand to forty-nine ninety-nine thousand range. Conversely, the percentage of failed plays is lowest at a goal of less than one thousand and increases as the goal increase. Based on Louise's goal of ten thousand, we believe her success rate will be fifty-four percent, and she can increase her percentage of success by lowering her goal. 

- What are some limitations of this dataset?
The Staff_pick and Spotlight columns were true or false columns but the IF function is not visible in the formula bar. I do not know what the conditions are to make this information either true or false. This information could have been valuable in the analysis, to some extent, in understanding if they contributed to the success or failure of the campaigns. Also, goals are not itemized to see where Louise may be too high or low; the information could give us a better idea of where we need to adjust our numbers to increase our chances of a successful play. We also do not have a genre of the subcategories to understand if the market prefers comedy over tragedy, for example.

- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
We can also look at the number of successful plays per country and the percentage funded. If this number is significant, Louise may have an opportunity to launch her Fever play in some other country. One conclusion about the outcomes based on goals is that successful plays increased after the thirty thousand range - does time of year contribute to this? or is there a specific country whose population is willing to fund plays? we could use our existing data and pivot it to get further insights.
